Readme.md, before:

Gini Android SDK
================

An SDK for integrating Gini technology into other apps. With this SDK you will be able to extract semantic information
from various types of documents.


Dependencies
------------

The Gini Android SDK has the following dependencies:

* [Volley from Google](http://developer.android.com/training/volley/index.html) ([AOSP Repository](https://android.googlesource.com/platform/frameworks/volley))
* [Bolts from facebook](https://github.com/BoltsFramework/Bolts-Android)
* [TrustKit from DataTheorem](https://github.com/datatheorem/TrustKit-Android)

Integration
-----------

You can easily integrate the Gini Android SDK into your app using Gradle and our Maven repository.

```
    repositories {
        maven {
            url "https://repo.gini.net/nexus/content/repositories/public"
        }
        ...
    }
    
    dependencies {
        compile ('net.gini:gini-android-sdk:2.8.0@aar'){
            transitive = true
        }
        ...
    }

```

See the [integration guide](http://developer.gini.net/gini-sdk-android/) for detailed guidance how to 
integrate the Gini SDK into your app.

See the [Gini Android SDK documentation](http://developer.gini.net/gini-sdk-android/java-docs-release/net/gini/android/DocumentTaskManager.html)
for more details how to use the `DocumentTaskManager`.


Copyright (c) 2014-2019, [Gini GmbH](https://www.gini.net/)

Commit message:

Update the readme and license

Readme.md, after:

Gini Android SDK
================

An SDK for communicating with the Gini API. It allows you to easily add information extraction capabilities to your app.

The Gini API provides an information extraction service for analyzing documents (e.g. invoices or contracts).
Specifically it extracts information such as the document sender or the payment relevant information (amount to pay,
IBAN, BIC, payment reference, etc.) in an invoice

Documentation
-------------

See the [integration guide](http://developer.gini.net/gini-sdk-android/) for detailed guidance how to
integrate the Gini SDK into your app.

Dependencies
------------

The Gini Android SDK has the following dependencies:

* [Volley from Google](http://developer.android.com/training/volley/index.html) ([AOSP Repository](https://android.googlesource.com/platform/frameworks/volley))
* [Bolts from facebook](https://github.com/BoltsFramework/Bolts-Android)
* [TrustKit from DataTheorem](https://github.com/datatheorem/TrustKit-Android)

License
-------

The Gini Android SDK is available under the MIT license. See the LICENSE file for details.
